Basics of Graphic Design:- 

Basics Design Principals:- 

1) Balanace:- Every element palced on the page has it's visual weight(Size, color, Texture, Positing, Shape also sometimes, etc.). 

Lack of balance - design may feel heavy on one side or empty on the opposite side. 
Two types of Balance: Symmetrical and Asymmetrical

2) Unity - Can be created by creating clean relationships between elements.

3) Contrast:- Used to create visual hierarchy

4) Repetition:- Repetiting a single desgin or an element through the design. 

5) Pattern:- Repetition of Multiple elements throughout the design.

6) Rhythm:- Visual Temple of a Combination elements when used repetedly and with Veriations. It gives the feeling of organized movement.

7) Movement:- This refer to the path which Viewers' eyes take through a composition. it guides the eyes of the viewer creating a play in the still placed elements keeping the viewer engaged.

8) Emphasis:- is the part where we make the user attention fall more rather than the other part of the page. It is to highlight that part or informaiton by making it stand out in the page rather than the rest of the page. 

9) Proportion:- is the empasis or the unity which happens when the relationship between the elements of different sizes works well.

10) Harmony:-  is the relation between the non-similar elements whose arrangements drives the page toward a specific meaning.

11)Variety

Color Wheel:- 
Types of color:- Warm( associated with Sun, warmth,  Fire, motivation, action, intensity )  and Cool( Calm, peace ).

Color Profile and Color Spaces

Color Spaces:- 
RGB and CMYK

RGB:- color mode for digital output. 
( Additive Color Method For Screen Displays )
in this method we get white as the final result where all the color are present and they start from black.

CMYK - Cyan Megenta Yellow and Black 
( Subtracitive Color Method for printing )
in this method which is mainly use for printing presses we start from white and end with black where all the color are absenct.

Color Qualities
Hue - is any color on the color wheel
Saturation - intensity or the purity of color.
Value - how (light or dark ) is the shade of the color.

Shade - create by adding black to the origin color.
Tint - create by adding white to the original colo.
Tone - create combining black or white or gray with the hue.

Color Therapy

1) Complementary:- colors which are directly opposite to each other in the color wheel beaccuse they create strong contrast theme.
(these are often used by artists to draw attention to specific elements, emphasise particular features and create focal points.)

2) Split Complementary - this color scheme ueses  one base color and two secondary color. base color is bain and secondary color is for the highlights.
(Interior designers use split complementary colors to: Create focal points in rooms, Balance energy and calm in living spaces, Connect different rooms through cohesive color stories)

Analogous:- this color harmony works by combining the colors next to it and this color scheme produces a calming and easygoing vibes. 
(used to create a sense of harmony and consistency throughout the design. The colors work well together and look nice when paired with each other, but they’re different enough that they stand out from one another too. They can be used to create a soothing effect on the eyes and instill a sense of calmness, peace, and tranquility. Analogous colors are also good at eliciting certain emotions and creating a more harmonious feeling. )

Monochromatic:- this takes just one color scheme and uses different shades of it.
(Achieve cohesion and unity for well-balanced, impactful visual experiences, Strengthen brand identity by highlighting key content and design elements, Connect with users’ thoughts and feelings through color psychology—using warm colors, cool colors, or neutral colors to stir different emotions, Simplify the color selection process, making it easier for teams to create stunning designs.)

Triadic:- this color scheme uses the color in the wheel which are evenly spaced from each other and form a triangle.
(Websites and Apps: A triadic color scheme can create a visually engaging and dynamic user interface, Logos and Branding: Triad colors can make your brand logo stand out and leave a lasting impression, Marketing Materials: Eye-catching brochures, flyers, and presentations can be achieved with a well-executed triad color scheme.)

Tetradic:- are two sets of color which form one part. these color work best when one of the colors is dominant in the palette and the rest if used as accent colors.

What is Typography?

is a stratigic arrangement of type in order to make written language readable, legible and appealing.

Type Anatomy:- 
Serif
Ascender
Descender
Axis
Ear
Bowl
Shoulder
Stem
Spine
Ligature
Lowercase
Uppercase
Font Styles
Font Weight


